# Spatiotemporal single-cell analysis reveals pre-existing follicular helper T cells in tumour-draining lymph nodes as key determinants for neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy response in cancer
The combination of anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (anti-PD-1) and chemotherapy has significantly improved patient survival in multiple cancer types. However, anti-PD-1 is reported to be linked with certain adverse effects and the optimal administration of anti-PD-1 is less explored. Whether anti-PD-1 added in the neoadjuvant phase can suffice beneficial response as to the long-term use remains a clinically and scientifically interesting question. Here, we conducted a phase II trial (NCT04833257) to investigate the clinical efficacy of neoadjuvant gemcitabine and cisplatin (GP) plus anti-PD-1 for only 3 cycles in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). GP plus anti-PD-1 achieved a high clinical complete response (CR) rate of 41.9% after neoadjuvant treatment and comparable 3-year survival to the long-term use of 12 cycles. Next, we performed single-cell transcriptomic and T-cell receptor sequencing analysis on 138 samples of 49 patients, covering pre- and post-treatment paired tumour, tumour-draining lymph node (TdLN) and peripheral blood samples. Among 77 cell subpopulations we detected in the tumour microenvironment, CXCL13+CXCR5+ follicular helper T (Tfh) cells showed the highest level of correlation to favourable response. Lineage tracing revealed that Tfh cells existed in TdLN before treatment, and were recruited to the tumour during therapy and contributed to the formation of mature tertiary lymphoid structure (mTLS). These results highlight the critical role of TdLN in mounting an effective response to immune therapy.
